External Gateway documentation (#430)
clearbank/clearbank.github.io: content/eu/docs/api/external-api/webhooks.mdx

| `signature-input`     | `{signature-id}=({list-of-components});keyid="{key-id}";created={timestamp};tag="fapi-2-request"` | `sig=("@method" "@target-uri" "x-webhook-id" "content-digest");keyid="scictt:74c509cadc714ca0a7bb9f61f0957c91";created=1740398429;tag="fapi-2-request"` | A description of the signature base that is signed to create the signature. See [Digital signatures](#digital-signatures).                                                          |
| `signature`           | `{signature-id}=:{signature}:`                                                                    | `sig=:MEUCIQC1d6wC9rc9FCFMa738GbgxbtFFPeWdcRnL0rrfELN2MAIgW8w57eo46Fl29C5CZ6SRAl2ouq9k/jQ79AkiUVI8OsQ=:`                                                | The Base64 encoded signature created by signing the signature base with a private key.                                                                                             |

## IP address ranges

The ranges of IP addresses that ClearBank webhooks are sent from are different for the simulation and production environments. All the IP addresses listed here should be included on your allow list so that webhooks are not blocked by your security.

> * Simulation public IP address ranges: `51.145.122.16/28`, `20.39.213.0/28`, `172.187.147.144/28`, `20.117.212.176/28`

Reviewer: Should we double check these?

### Processing

Due to the 5 second timeout window that applies to successful webhook responses, it makes sense to minimise the processing that is done before responding to the webhook. We recommend verifying, queuing, and responding to the webhook synchronously. An internal queuing solution can then handle any further processing asynchronously (including any checks for duplicates).

### Idempotency

We use at-least-once delivery when sending webhooks. This means that, to ensure you have received a webhook, we may send it to you multiple times.

Duplicate webhooks can generally be identified by looking at the `EventType`, `Timestamp`, and `Id` within the payload. If the values are the same, the webhook is a duplicate.

You must be able to handle duplicate webhooks idempotently. This means you should always respond in the appropriate format even if you have detected a duplicated or retried webhook. If you don't, we won't be able to verify that the webhook was successfully received and will therefore retry delivery.

## Digital signatures

> We use digital signatures to ensure that the integrity of a request is maintained, so we require and verify signatures on all requests sent to our APIs. We also sign responses from our APIs and our webhooks so that you are able to verify the integrity of the communication originating from us.

Reviewer: We should also mention that digital signatures are employed for non-repudiation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We use digital signatures to ensure message integrity, authenticate the sender, and provide non-repudiation. Therefore, we require and verify signatures on all requests sent to our APIs. We also sign API responses and webhooks, enabling you to verify the integrity and origin of communications from us.
```

> We use digital signatures to ensure that the integrity of a request is maintained, so we require and verify signatures on all requests sent to our APIs. We also sign responses from our APIs and our webhooks so that you are able to verify the integrity of the communication originating from us.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We use digital signatures to ensure message integrity, authenticate the sender, and provide non-repudiation. Therefore, we require and verify signatures on all requests sent to our APIs. We also sign API responses and webhooks, enabling you to verify the integrity and origin of communications from us.
```

| Derived components | `"@derivedComponent"`                     | `"@method"` and `"@target-uri"`              | Values that can be derived from the request itself. See [Derived Components](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9421#name-derived-components). |
| HTTP fields        | `"header"`                                | `"x-fapi-interaction-id"` and `"x-webhook-id"` | Identifiers for HTTP headers; the values of these headers represent the value used in the signature base.\* See [HTTP Fields](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9421#name-http-fields). |
| Request components | `"@derivedComponent";req` or `"header";req` | `"@target-uri";req` and `"signature-input";req` | Values taken from the original request, used when a response is being signed. See [Request Components](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9421#name-signing-request-components-). |

\*As per the specification, HTTP fields also include trailers; however, we currently only support HTTP headers. If this changes in the future, we will communicate it.

### Creating the signature base

> See the [specification](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9421#name-creating-the-signature-base) for the full detail.

Reviewer: Should probably add a reference to the verify our responses section or copy some of the info across here.
